feat(m&b): Tax codes (#5752)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_how-tos/metering-and-billing/configure-metering-and-billing-tax-codes.md

Reviewer: The how to works for me. It is more reference-like, but I like that it shows the flow of checking what you have and then adding tax codes if the defaults/existing ones don't work for you.

---
title: Create and apply {{site.metering_and_billing}} tax codes
permalink: /how-to/configure-metering-and-billing-tax-codes/
description: Learn how to review system-managed tax codes, create custom tax codes, and apply them at the organization and rate-card level in {{site.konnect_short_name}} {{site.metering_and_billing}}.
content_type: how_to

breadcrumbs:
  - /metering-and-billing/

products:
    - metering-and-billing

works_on:
    - konnect

tags:
    - metering
    - billing

prereqs:

>   skip_product: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  skip_product: true
  show_works_on: false
  inline:
    - title: "{{site.konnect_product_name}}"
      include_content: prereqs/products/konnect-account-only
      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg
```
I think we need this one since we don't use the exported PAT

## Review default organization tax codes

When your organization is created, {{site.metering_and_billing}} sets up two defaults: one for invoicing and one for credit grants.
Review these before creating custom codes, as the pre-provisioned codes may already cover your needs.

1. In the {{site.konnect_short_name}} sidebar, click **Metering & Billing** > **Settings**.
1. Click the **Tax Codes** tab.
1. Review the list of system-managed and user-created tax codes and the current defaults.
1. To change which code is the default, click the action menu on any row and select **Set as Invoicing Default** or **Set as Credit Grant Default**.

If the system-managed codes cover your needs, you can skip the next step and go directly to [Apply a tax code to a rate card](#apply-a-tax-code-to-a-rate-card).

## Create a tax code

If none of the system-managed codes match your product category, you can create a custom tax code:

1. In the {{site.konnect_short_name}} sidebar, click **Metering & Billing** > **Settings**.
1. Click the **Tax Codes** tab.
1. Click **Create tax code**.
1. Enter a name, key, and optional description.

> 1. Add one or more app mappings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (Optional) Add one or more app mappings.
```
You can save without configuring this.

   For Stripe, the value must follow the `txcd_XXXXXXXX` format.
   You can browse available values in the [Stripe Tax Code reference](https://docs.stripe.com/tax/tax-codes).

> 1. Optionally, set the code as the **Invoicing Default** or **Credit Grant Default**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (Optional) Set the code as the **Invoicing Default** or **Credit Grant Default**.
```

1. Click **Save**.

{:.info}
> **Note:** Only one tax code can be set as the default per category at a time.
> You can't delete a default tax code.
> To delete it, first set a different code as the default, then delete the original.

## Apply a tax code to a rate card

You can apply a tax code at two levels within your product catalog.

### Apply a tax code on a plan or add-on rate card

This sets the tax code for a specific product or fee, overriding the organization default.

1. In the {{site.konnect_short_name}} sidebar, click **Metering & Billing** > **Product Catalog**.

> 1. Click **Plans** or **Add-ons** and select a plan or add-on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the **Plans** or **Add-ons** tab and select a plan or add-on.
```

1. Open or create a rate card.
1. In the **Pricing Model** configuration, expand **Advanced Settings**.

> 1. Select the **Tax Behavior**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Tax Behavior** dropdown, select the behavior you want to apply.
```

> 1. Set the **Tax Code** to your custom code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Tax Code** dropdown, select your custom code.
```

1. Save the rate card.

### Apply a tax code on a subscription rate card

This overrides the tax code for a specific customer's subscription, without changing the underlying plan.

1. In the {{site.konnect_short_name}} sidebar, click **Metering & Billing** > **Billing**.
1. Click a customer.
1. Click the **Subscription** tab.
1. Click **Manage** and expand **Advanced Settings**.
1. Enable **Advanced Customization**.
1. Click **Next**.

> 1. Open or create a rate card.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Edit or create a rate card.
```

1. In the **Pricing Model** configuration, expand **Advanced Settings**.

> 1. Select the **Tax Behavior**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Tax Behavior** dropdown, select the behavior you want to apply.
```

> 1. Set the **Tax Code** to your custom code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Tax Code** dropdown, select your custom code.
```

---
title: Create and apply {{site.metering_and_billing}} tax codes
permalink: /how-to/configure-metering-and-billing-tax-codes/
description: Learn how to review system-managed tax codes, create custom tax codes, and apply them at the organization and rate-card level in {{site.konnect_short_name}} {{site.metering_and_billing}}.
content_type: how_to

breadcrumbs:
  - /metering-and-billing/

products:
    - metering-and-billing

works_on:
    - konnect

tags:
    - metering
    - billing

prereqs:
  skip_product: true
  show_works_on: false
  inline:
    - title: "{{site.konnect_product_name}}"
      include_content: prereqs/products/konnect-account-only
      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg

>   inline:

Author: ```suggestion
```
